---
layout: post
title: "Hacker Summer Camp 2017: DEF CON"
category: Security
date: 2017-08-05
tags:
  - Security
  - Hacker Summer Camp
---

DEF CON, of course, is the main event of Hacker Summer Camp for me.  It's the
largest gathering of hackers in the world, and it's the only opportunity I get
to see some of the people I know in the industry.  It's also the most hands-on
of all of the conferences I've ever attended, and the people running the
villages clearly know their stuff and are super passionate about their area.
Nowhere do I see so much raw talent and excitement for the hacker spirit as at
DEF CON.

This year was the first year at Caesar's Palace and quite frankly, it showed.  Traffic
control reminded me of the first year at Bally's/Paris: as best as they could do
without any data, but still far from optimal.  Additionally, Dark Tangent
pointed out that they were expecting 6% growth, but ended up closer to 20%.
That's thousands extra.  The rule that they do not sell out and everyone gets
through the door is not without its downsides.

Overall, this year was incredible for me personally.  Though I attended no main
track talks, I made it to a couple of Sky Talks and some village talks, as well
as a bunch of village activities.  I met a bunch of interesting people who are
working on interesting technical things, which is great because it reminds me
why I got into this industry in the first place and what I want to be doing in
the future.

The IoT village was excellent, but I wish I had gotten to it earlier to
participate in the IoT CTF -- it looked like a lot of fun, and their physical
target range wasn't something you see everyday.  They had everything from
cheap bluetooth devices to the Google Home and Amazon Alexa, and I believe this
is a reflection of where we'll see the future growth in security -- the IoT
isn't a passing fad, and we'll have millions of low-cost devices deployed and
not properly managed.  There's no time like the present to get security to the
front and center of the IoT device design process.

In previous years, I'd always played in the Capture the Packet contest.  This
year I opted out, despite having a bye in the first round, because there was so
much going on and because it had consumed too much of my time at DEF CON 24.  I
don't regret this decision, but it is something I missed slightly.  In fact, it
ended up that I never even set foot in the packet capture village!  (I guess
that's what happens to villages at the end of halls?)

The "linecon" joke was never more accurate than this year -- there was a line
for everything!  Not only did every talk have lines, but there were lines to get
into the Biohacking Village, the Swag line was long (where was Hacker Stickers
with our official unofficial swag?), even the line for Mohawkcon was ridiculous!
(Maybe next year I just need to get a mohawk before I go there -- it's not like
I don't donate to the EFF anyway.)  I'm sure this is a combination of many
factors, including the growth of the community, the new venue, and the fact that
it wouldn't be DEF CON without linecon.

The DEF CON artwork is not something I normally write about, largely because I'm
no artist and I barely have an eye for, well, anything, but I really thought the
art was excellent this year.  I so desperately wanted to rip one of the posters
off the wall next to the escalators!  (I have hopes one of them might appear in
a charity auction at some point, but I didn't see it at con.)

Caesar's as a venue was okay -- there was noticably more space, but figuring out
how to get between some of the areas was not crystal clear.  A lot of that was
on me -- I should've done more recon of the con area.  (Look for a "lessons
learned" post coming soon.)  My hotel room was awesome though, and in the tower
right above the con space, so I had that going for me.  Fingers crossed to get
in the same tower next year.

Mad props to DT and all the DEF CON Goons and organizers who work so hard to put
the event together.  No matter how much chaos there may be, I've had a great
time every year, and I wouldn't miss it for the world.  That's just a part of
the World's Biggest Hacker Convention.
