---
layout: post
title: "Hacker Summer Camp 2019 Preview"
category: Security
date: 2019-05-02
tags:
  - DEF CON
  - Hacker Summer Camp
series: Hacker Summer Camp 2019
---
Every year, I try to distill some of the changes, events, and information
surrounding the big week of computer security conferences in Las Vegas.  This
week, including Black Hat, BSides Las Vegas, and DEF CON, is what some refer to
as "Hacker Summer Camp" and is likely the largest gathering of computer security
professionals and hackers each year.

<!--more-->

* TOC
{:toc}

## The Conferences ##

In my mind, there is a spectrum of conferences in the realm of hacking and
computer security.  They range from pure hacker conferences to security industry
tradeshows.  I have a strong preference for the pure hacker conferences, but I
realize that not everyone agrees with me.  It may, however, color my opinions of
the 3 conferences in Las Vegas during Hacker Summer Camp.

Hacker conferences are all about showing off cool technical tricks, and not all
of them need to be security related -- see the beverage cooling contraption
contest at DEF CON.  You'll find most attendees in black t-shirts and jeans or
shorts, with the occasional [utilikilt](https://amzn.to/2H2gEfi).  (Yes, it's a
stereotype, but that doesn't mean it's not true.)  You'll find people who are
excited about whatever they're working on and willing to share it with you just
because they want to share.  You'll find those where hacking is something that
just comes naturally, and if they're lucky, they've turned it into a way to pay
the bills too.  The vendor area, if any, is full of vendors selling esoteric
electronics, lockpicks, and more black t-shirts.

At the other end of the spectrum, you have events that are run by companies, for
companies.  The vendor area becomes a central focus, with lots of companies
wanting to sell you "turnkey solutions", and wanting to scan your badge to
collect your information for later mailing.  The average dress code here is polo
shirt and khakis, but if you're in management, the blazer may make an appearance
as well.  The first question is "where do you work?" not "what do you do?"

One (to me) key difference is in the badge.  While hacker cons have trended
towards interesting badges (electronic, laser cut, etc.), what really sets them
apart is whether badges carry identification.  Hacker con badges are merely
admission to the event, and every one is identical (so don't lose it).  At
security industry conferences, your name (and often your employer) are proudly
displayed for everyone to see.  Anonymity is a non-goal at these events.

If you plan to do more than one of the conferences, keep in mind how long you
will be in Las Vegas as a result.  I've once done 4 days of training at Black
Hat, followed by Black Hat briefings, followed by DEF CON.  (And a company event
in between!)  This resulted in an 11 day stay in Las Vegas, which is *way* too
long for my personal tolerance.  Even without the heat, the 24/7 nature of the
Vegas strip just really pushed me mentally, so consider your personal capacity
for such a city.

### DEF CON ###

DEF CON is the conference that started it all.  Since 1993, Dark Tangent has
been bringing hackers together to hang out in the Las Vegas summer.  DEF CON is
also, by far, the largest of the 3 conferences, with somewhere upwards of 20,000
attendees.  Nearly every talk will be completely packed, with many forming a
line as long as an hour in advance.  Elevators will be crowded, hallways will be
crowded, and it will be crazy -- and I love every minute of it!

For me, the best part of DEF CON are the villages.  These are specialized areas
providing an opportunity for individuals with particular interests to get
together and focus on that area of hacking.  Examples of villages include the
IoT village (where I had the [privilege to speak last
year](/2018/08/10/im-the-one-who-doesnt-knock-unlocking-doors-from-the-network.html)),
the lockpicking village, the tamper-evident village, the packet capture village,
and many, many more.  Last year there were so many villages I didn't even get a
chance to see them all.

Many of the villages offer hands-on activities, which are some of the best
opportunities at DEF CON.  For example, the Packet Capture village has "Capture
the Packet", a network forensics challenge, the IoT village has an IoT CTF, the
lockpicking village has hands-on lockpicking, and the soldering skills village
has soldering irons set up along with kits to practice -- or even challenge --
your soldering skills.  These are just a few of the ways you can get hands-on
practice in specialized security or hacking domains directly from some of the
most passionate individuals in those specializations.

DEF CON is also at a reasonably accessible price -- it looks like badges will
cost $300 this year.  For 4 days of content, it's really quite worth it.

### Black Hat ###

Black Hat was the second of the conferences to be founded.  Like DEF CON, it was
founded by the Dark Tangent, but he eventually sold it off to a commercial
conference organizer (United Business Media) that continues to run it today.
Black Hat is the straight edge cousin to DEF CON -- it is significantly closer
to the "security industry" end of my conference spectrum.  While the talks
deliver high-quality content, there are not nearly as many "side opportunities"
as presented at DEF CON.

On the other hand, Black Hat offers some of the premiere training opportunities
each year.  There are [dozens of courses being
offered](https://www.blackhat.com/us-19/training/schedule/), with a wide range of
topics, from incident response to red teaming to ARM exploitation.

The quality of Black Hat will set you back a bit -- briefing passes are from
$2295 to $2895 depending on when you register, and trainings run from
$3600 to $5600.

### BSides Las Vegas ###

BSides Las Vegas, the first of the "Security BSides" conferences, is a smaller
event that completely takes over the Tuscany Hotel & Casino for 2 days.  It's
definitely a hacker event, but less chaotic than DEF CON.  In years past, it's
also been the most approachable event with free tickets at the door.

Unfortunately, this year the free badge train has ended.  Lines were forming
hours in advance with many, many, people being disappointed due to not getting a
badge after spending hours waiting.  Consequently, badges are available via
sponsorship (individual or corporate), participation (speaking/volunteering), or
booking a room in their room block.  Of these options, I believe only
participation remains to get a badge if you don't have one yet.  Check out the
[CFP](https://www.bsideslv.org/call-for-papers/) or the [call for
volunteers](https://www.bsideslv.org/volunteer/).  (Pro tip: volunteering for a
hacker conference also introduces you to a number of great people in the space,
which can be an excellent networking opportunity.)

The talks are high quality and many are used as a dry run for other conferences,
or are the kind of talk that just barely didn't make it.  Sometimes they're just
too niche.  One of my favorite features is that some speakers ("Proving
Ground") are new speakers who have been paired with a mentor to help them
present their original research.

BSides Las Vegas is also home to the [Pros v Joes CTF](http://prosversusjoes.net/),
a unique CTF that provides both red team and blue team experiences in a
highly-immersive environment.  Unlike many CTFs, the 3 priorities for PvJ are:

1. Education
2. Fun
3. Winning

Competition comes in third behind learning and having a good time.  For those
new to the industry or looking to expand their skillset, I can't recommend a
better *free* way to build those skills.  (Full disclaimer: I'm a member of the
PvJ staff after being a multi-year player.)

If you're interested, check out the [website](http://prosversusjoes.net/), my
[Blue Team Player's
Guide](/2015/08/15/blue-team-players-guide-for-pros-vs-joes-ctf/), or my post on
the [evolution of the Blue
Teams](/2018/06/19/pros-vs-joes-ctf-the-evolution-of-blue-teams.html).  Sign up
is open now for both Pros and Joes.

## Other Events ##

### QueerCon ###

### Parties ###

## Where to Stay ##

As usual, there are generally two schools of thought on where to stay: either at
one of the con hotels, or off-site.  Both have Pros and Cons, and I'll break out
some of the more common considerations below.  Neither option is "right" or
"wrong" and it often comes down to whether or not you want to be as immersed in
the culture of the event as possible, or want to have a break from it by going
back to your offsite hotel.

### Staying at the Con Hotels ###

**Pros**:

* Easy to quickly drop things off/grab things in your room.
* Talks are streamed to the hotel rooms (roomcon)
* No long walks/cab lines in the heat to get to your room

For BSides Las Vegas, an additional pair of pros includes the two badges for the
conference as well as the fact that the entire hotel is reserved for BSides
attendees (during the conference) so you get to hang with like-minded hackers.

**Cons**:

* Usually more expensive, unless booked very early.
* Elevators are often overcrowded.

For DEF CON, there's the added con of Caesar's history of "health and welfare
checks" (see below).

### Staying Offsite ###

**Pros**:

* Cheaper hotels available (or AirBnB)
* More options (loyalty points, etc.)
* Quieter hotels/less shenanigans

**Cons**:

* Need to go back and forth to the cons

Admittedly, the pros/cons of staying offsite are nearly the inverse of the
staying onsite, so it's very much a matter of prioritizing for you.

### Caesar's Properties and "Health and Welfare Checks" ###

Note that there were a lot of issues regarding Caesar's Entertainment Group
employees (and potentially impostors) entering guest rooms last year.  Caesar's
maintains that these room checks will be conducted by security and are necessary
for guest safety.  While this is highly debateable, and many in the security
community (including myself) consider these checks an invasion of personal
privacy, it appears they will be continuing these checks.  [DEF CON links to
this Caesar's room check policy
FAQ.](https://www.defcon.org/images/defcon-main/caesars-room-check-policy.pdf)
Please note that all three of the hotels where DEF CON is being held this year
(Paris, Bally's, and Planet Hollywood) are members of the Caesar's Entertainment
Group, so I would expect the same behavior at those locations.  If you want to
ensure your room stays secure when occupied, you could consider a [Veritas
Traveller's Doorstop](http://www.leevalley.com/us/gifts/page.aspx?p=40812) as
recommended by [Deviant
Ollam](https://twitter.com/deviantollam/status/1029124425927483392).

I would also consider putting anything valuable in hard-sided luggage and
locking the luggage.  It keeps it out of sight, and requires someone either
overtly destroys the luggage or steals the entire thing, either of which is
significantly more obvious than just grabbing something.  I'm likely going to
get a [Pelican 1510](https://amzn.to/2Jf4uB2) or similar for my electronics.
That would require a dramatic entry or is likely to be caught on security
cameras if taken by an employee.  (There are, of course, no guarantees.)

If you completely want to avoid this, I would check that your alternative hotel
has no such policy.  Many of the Casino-hotels have gone this way, so you might
want to consider a non-Casino venue, such as the Hilton Grand Vacations, the
Westin Las Vegas, or Marriott's Grand Chateau.  As of writing, I could not find
any information about a "health and welfare" check for any of them, but if
you're concerned, I would consider calling and checking in advance.

## Saving Money ##

## Conclusion ##

Closer to the conferences, I'll put out a preview of specific talks and events
to look forward to, as well as newbie guides to some of the events.  I'll also
put together a list of things I'm bringing to make the conferences more fun or
just make my time in Vegas less painful.
