---
layout: post
title: "Hacker Culture Reading List"
category: Security
date: 2020-06-26
tags:
  - Security
  - Security 101
  - Books
  - Hacker Culture
date: 2020-06-26
---

A friend recently asked me if I could recommend some reading about hacking and
security culture.  I gave a couple of quick answers, but it inspired me to write
a blog post in case anyone else is looking for similar content.  Unless
otherwise noted, I've read all of these books/resources and can recommend them.

<!--more-->

## Nonfiction ##

[![Cult of the Dead Cow: How the Original Hacking Supergroup Might Just Save the World](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=154176238X&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.amzimg .right}](https://www.amazon.com/Cult-Dead-Cow-Original-Supergroup/dp/154176238X/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&qid=1592972632&sr=8-1&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=ec04871aa1df66690df6f9de2406f340&language=en_US)

**[Cult of the Dead Cow: How the Original Hacking Supergroup Might Just Save the
World](https://amzn.to/2B583YP)** is a well-researched deep dive into one of the
original and most significant hacking groups.  Members of the cDc have been
involved in many of the early fundamental techniques and tools in the world of
hacking.  Even now, decades later, they continue to influence the fields of
hacking and cybersecurity, through activities like member Beto O'Rourke's
influences in politics, major roles in the cybersecurity industry, and other
positions.  They've had members testify before Congress, involved in running
DARPA, and the development of privacy technology Tor.  There's also a great
[companion talk to go with the
book](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QvZuAwLIsEo).

[![Breaking and Entering: The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called "Alien"](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0544903218&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.left .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Breaking-Entering-Extraordinary-Hacker-Called/dp/0544903218/ref=as_li_ss_il?dchild=1&keywords=story+of+a+hacker+called&qid=1592974197&sr=8-1&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=6484b2241b2662dedbd730b78fb79448&language=en_US)

**[Breaking and Entering: The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called
"Alien"](https://amzn.to/3duZq72)** covers a story of a hacker who started her
foray into exploring the restricted during her time at MIT.  The hacking done
there was more akin to what we might call urban exploration today, but was
called hacking at the time.  The inquisitiveness of wanting to explore what was
"verboten" is what has lead to generations of great hacks we've seen since.
Alien takes her interest in the forbidden and brings it to the digital age
through her computer exploits and develops into one of the most talented
hacking careers.  Her skills aren't limited to the keyboard, however, and she
takes things into her own hands and starts her own business.

[![Ghost in the Wires: My Adventures as the World's Most Wanted Hacker](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0316037729&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.right .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Ghost-Wires-Adventures-Worlds-Wanted/dp/0316037729/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=0316037729&pd_rd_r=60709235-b524-41f1-ba1c-5208233b1c9c&pd_rd_w=ZSDVS&pd_rd_wg=RwOOh&pf_rd_p=4e3f7fc3-00c8-46a6-a4db-8457e6319578&pf_rd_r=AMF3QHRGHHQNTBN18XJN&psc=1&refRID=AMF3QHRGHHQNTBN18XJN&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=6e856d350b955623b5cfe694874d2ac8&language=en_US)

Love him or hate him, Kevin Mitnick is both one of the best known hackers of all
time as well as a significant influence in the hacking and phone phreaking
scenes of the 1990s.  **[Ghost in the Wires: My Adventures as the World's Most
Wanted Hacker](https://amzn.to/3fT4Om2)** documents the times he was on the run
from federal authorities while labeled as the "world's most dangerous hacker."
While the book is not very technical at all, it describes some great social
engineering exploits and is an enjoyable read to get to understand the actions
involved in escaping the Feds.  Even though they're older books, I also enjoy
Mitnick's [The Art of Deception: Controlling the Human Element of
Security](https://amzn.to/3dvaXDB) and [The Art of Intrusion: The Real Stories
Behind the Exploits of Hackers, Intruders and
Deceivers](https://amzn.to/3hY6Vaj).

[![The Cuckoo's Egg: Tracking a Spy Through the Maze of Computer Espionage](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=1416507787&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.left .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Cuckoos-Egg-Tracking-Computer-Espionage/dp/1416507787/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=7b9b2c71172fc8659ba81a001a1b0d29&language=en_US)

**[The Cuckoo's Egg](https://amzn.to/2NmhW76)** goes back to an era of
timesharing on mainframe computer systems.  Astronomer turned systems
administrator turned author Cliff Stoll details how an accounting error turned
into a hunt for a hacker that has compromised their timesharing system at
Lawrence Berkeley Labs.  It's not just some bored student or phreaker messing
with their system -- it turns into a major intelligence and criminal
investigation, leading to a major bust.  Oh, and that accounting error?  It was
over 75 cents.  This may well be one of the earliest hacking investigations to
be documented and publicized in this way.  It's a hybrid of detective story and
hacking story, and is just the right length to tell the story.

[![Crypto: How the Code Rebels Beat the Government -- Saving Privacy in the Digital Age](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0670859508&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.right .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Crypto-Rebels-Government-Saving-Privacy-Digital/dp/0670859508/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&qid=1593138324&sr=1-1&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=17b0bc1a897042b135690f268496f36c&language=en_US)

Steven Levy's **[Crypto: How the Code Rebels Beat the Government -- Saving
Privacy in the Digital Age](https://amzn.to/2VgQNqn)** describes the first
Crypto Wars, in the mid 1990s.  It discusses the issues and implications of
access to cryptography, why the government wants to control access to
cryptography (to control information) and how the issues played out.  This may
be one of the most timely books in this list given the issues at play with the
[US legislature](/2020/06/25/stop-earn-it-and-laed.html), the laws [recently
passed in Australia](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-australia-46463029), and
other issues at hand.  Paraphrasing George Santayana, "Those who do not remember
their past are condemned to repeat their mistakes."

[![Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=1449388396&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.left .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Hackers-Computer-Revolution-Steven-Levy/dp/1449388396/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=1449388396&pd_rd_r=7f4dbbdb-5ce6-4f01-8325-e93fe0524740&pd_rd_w=ZwjBb&pd_rd_wg=18gX9&pf_rd_p=327bd107-8f81-4cea-8249-0243ca14f16d&pf_rd_r=5AHZEP766N35X2NFEK6S&psc=1&refRID=5AHZEP766N35X2NFEK6S&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=303911f9422a76a97619707433e0d634&language=en_US)

Also by Steven Levy, **[Hackers: Heroes of the Computer
Revolution](https://amzn.to/37ZKXz2)** is a great profile of the original
hackers, even before the times of cybersecurity.  The book covers the early
"hackers" of computers like Bill Gates, Steve Wozniak, and Richard Stallman and
the transition from the mainframe computing world to the world of computers in
every home.  Today we've transitioned to computers in every pocket, but the
evolution was begun by these early computer enthusiasts.  Without their efforts
(and their sometimes bending the rules), we wouldn't have the hacking scene we
do today.  Steven Levy covers the history in depth and with a great amount of
detail.

## Fiction (Culturally Influencing) ##

[![Neuromancer](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0143111604&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.right .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Neuromancer-Penguin-Galaxy-William-Gibson/dp/0143111604/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&qid=1593140348&sr=1-1-50be07be-ed51-4b0f-8f11-b1fc0824f1e6&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=a375a9193ebb813ff076def9ff9c4aad&language=en_US)

William Gibson, author of **[Neuromancer](https://amzn.to/2B1RtcE)**, the first
book in the Sprawl trilogy,
is the father of the term "cyberspace", giving us "cybersecurity".  I'm not sure
whether to thank him or hate him for the term "cybersecurity", but I do know
that this book is one of the defining books of the "cyber" culture, including
modern hackers, cyberpunks, and a large part of the culture surrounding the
realm of hacking.  It's likely that this book (and series) has influenced an entire
generation of science fiction writers and the surrounding culture.  The book is
a literary masterpiece in its own right, winning both a Philip K. Dick Award and
a Hugo Award.  The other two books in the Sprawl trilogy are [Count
Zero](https://amzn.to/2NuTBfl) and [Mona Lisa
Overdrive](https://amzn.to/2Z9n0RU).  This is, without a doubt, my favorite book
trilogy and one of my favorite books of all time.

[![Snow Crash](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0553380958&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.left .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Snow-Crash-Neal-Stephenson/dp/0553380958/ref=as_li_ss_il?dchild=1&keywords=snow+crash&qid=1593140342&s=books&sr=1-1&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=5858bedfbc5507ea91fdde381bbf18a2&language=en_US)

**[Snow Crash](https://amzn.to/2VlhEBU)** by Neal Stephenson is set in the
Metaverse and heavily features virtual reality being used as a substitute for,
well, reality.  In many ways, it's a 21st century take on *Neuromancer* but also
brings into play a blend of old and new culture and truly makes you think about
where society is headed.  This book managed to make *Time*'s list of 100 best
English-language novels and is also one of my top 10 books.  Neal Stephenson is
an imaginative author with an eye for the future that makes you think.  His book
**[Cryptonomicon](https://amzn.to/3i2QiKv)** is another of my favorites.

[![Digital Fortress](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0739441671&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.right .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Digital-Fortress-Dan-Brown/dp/0739441671/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&qid=1593140214&sr=1-1&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=2487996729427af8bbb1fce8c0635465&language=en_US)

**[Digital Fortress](https://amzn.to/2CLAQ5v)** by Dan Brown (author of The
Da Vinci Code) is an
all-too-real
fictional account of a secret NSA supercomputer capable of breaking any encryption
system.  With malware introduced into the computer, the system is beginning to
break down and they must uncover the story of what has happened and how.  With
the author of the code infecting the machine dead, the members of the NSA
cryptography team must work to figure out what's behind the malware and the code
it contained.  This novel is deeply engrossing -- the first time I read it, I
ended up missing a whole night of sleep reading it.  (I can't recommend this
approach, especially if you have to go to work the next day.)

[![Little Brother](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0765323117&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.left .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Little-Brother-Cory-Doctorow/dp/0765323117/ref=as_li_ss_il?ie=UTF8&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=e2682c4fecf7416b5f8de5cc41c27ca0&language=en_US)

**[Little Brother](https://amzn.to/3iaqxYX)** by Cory Doctorow is a modern day
take on Orwell's 1984, updated for the technologies and organizations of today.
Quite frankly, it's so realistic to me that it's deeply unsettling -- in the
uncanny valley of government surveillance.  It's a reminder that we have to be
careful of the way we treat our privacy, our rights, and the power of our
government.  Doctorow has a scary outlook on life, but it's an important read
for anyone concerned about the state of our society.  Though written as a "young
adult" novel, I found it an engaging and interesting read and thought provoking.
In fact, I've read it at least twice, along with
**[Homeland](https://amzn.to/2YABTNX)**.  If you're more the novella type, I can
strongly recommend **[Overclocked](https://amzn.to/31eZllD)**, though the story
*sysadmins* is a bit of a horror story.  (Though maybe you like that sort of
thing!)

## Guilty Pleasures ##

Though I can't recommend them as "high quality literature", there are a few
books I enjoy reading in the vein of hacking.  These include:

- [Geek Mafia](https://amzn.to/2VknHGQ) by Rick Dakan
- [Geek Mafia: Mile Zero](https://amzn.to/2NBDWe9) by Rick Dakan
- [Zero Day: A Jeff Aiken Novel](https://amzn.to/3i2XciW) by Mark Russinovich
