---
layout: post
title: "2017 Hacker Holiday Gift Guide"
category: Misc
date: 2017-11-19
tags:
  - Security
  - Hacking
  - Hackers
  - Culture
  - Holiday
---

I've been thinking about gifts for Hackers and Makers lately as the holiday
season arrives.  I decided I'd build a public list of some of my favorite things
(and perhaps some things I'd like myself as well!)  I'll break it down into a
few categories for different kinds of hackers (and different kinds of gifters as
well).  Prices are current as of writing, but not something I'll be updating.

<!--more-->

* TOC
{:toc}

## Stocking Stuffers (Under about $20)

### Yubico U2F Security Key

[![Yubico U2F Security Key](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B00NLKA0D8&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20){:.right}](http://amzn.to/2yYa6aR)

The [U2F Security Key by Yubico](http://amzn.to/2yYa6aR) is a hardware 2-factor
authentication token compatible with the Fido Alliance Universal 2-Factor (U2F)
standard.  This includes sites like Google (GMail), Github, Gitlab, Bitbucket,
Dropbox and Facebook.  Unlike SMS, U2F can't be intercepted by an adversary
(even in countries with government-run telcos).  It continues to work with a
dead battery in your smartphone, and is backed by a hardware secure element.
It still won't protect you against malware on your computer, but it's a dramatic
increase in security for most threat models.  Everyone should have two security
keys: one for daily use, and a backup (already enrolled) in a safe place in case
something happens to the primary.  [$17 at Amazon](http://amzn.to/2yYa6aR)

### Red Team Field Manual

[![Red Team Field Manual](/img/blog/gifts2017/rtfm.jpg){:.left}](http://amzn.to/2jFLzog)

The [Red Team Field Manual](http://amzn.to/2jFLzog) is a versatile guide for
anyone who quickly needs to perform security tasks on both Windows and Linux.
Though mostly targeted towards penetration testers & red teamers, this is useful
for system administrators who spend most of their time on one platform but need
to work on the other occasionally, or for budding infosec students getting used
to working on their non-native platform.  It provides command lines for a number
of different tasks on both platforms, including:

  * Networking Commands (ip address, routing table, etc.)
  * Common file operations (search, replace, extract, hash, etc.)
  * Common file locations (password hashes, configuration, etc.)
  * Basic scripting operations (bash, python, powershell)

This is not reading material -- it's strictly a reference, but in a quite handy
format & form factor.  [$9 at Amazon](http://amzn.to/2jFLzog)

### iFixit Essentials Toolkit

[![iFixit Essentials Toolkit](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B01MRNIFR6&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20){:.right}](http://amzn.to/2hDbt7Q)

The [iFixit Essentials Toolkit](http://amzn.to/2hDbt7Q) is a smaller version of
my favorite toolkit, the [iFixit Pro Tech Toolkit](http://amzn.to/2zSxGck).  It
contains a high quality screwdriver handle, the most frequently used screwdriver
bits, and several tools useful for opening all kinds of devices, including
smartphones, routers, and pretty much any other IoT device out there.  It comes
in a nice case that uses neodymium magnets to hold it closed.  It also supports
iFixit, who produce some really high quality teardowns and post it all online
for free.  [$19.99 at Amazon](http://amzn.to/2hDbt7Q)

## For Penetration Testers & Red Teamers

### WiFi Pineapple Nano

[![WiFi Pineapple Nano](/img/blog/gifts2017/pineapple_nano.jpg){:.right}](https://hakshop.com/products/wifi-pineapple)

Hak5's [WiFi Pineapple](https://hakshop.com/products/wifi-pineapple) may be the
best-known piece of hacking hardware out there.  In the current generation, the
Nano offers two radios built-in, making it perfect for a repeater style setup.
In addition to the use as an attack device, allowing penetration testers to
conduct wireless audits, attacks on clients, and other kinds of applied attacks,
the Pineapple is also great for the hacker on the go.  I often use mine to
connect to hotel WiFi on one radio, perform a VPN link back to a VPN server, and
provide a WPA2 hotspot on the other radio.  Few other travel APs can provide
this kind of functionality, so bringing the Pineapple Nano on the road with me
always gives a lot of flexibility and options.  [$99.99 at
HakShop](https://hakshop.com/products/wifi-pineapple)

### Packet Squirrel

[![Packet Squirrel](/img/blog/gifts2017/packet_squirrel.jpg){:.left}](https://hakshop.com/products/packet-squirrel)

If the WiFi Pineapple is a Swiss Army Knife for WiFi networks, then the [Packet
Squirrel](https://hakshop.com/products/packet-squirrel) is that for wired
ethernet.  As a physical man-in-the-middle (MitM) device, the Packet Squirrel
allows you to perform network attacks, modify traffic, or just VPN your own
devices.  (Even multiple devices if a network switch is connected behind the
Packet Squirrel.)  While the Wifi Pineapple may be the classic Hak5 tool
(perhaps excepting the USB rubber ducky), the Packet Squirrel is the newest
member of the family.  I haven't had a chance to do much with mine yet, but it
looks promising and has a ton of cool features.  [$59.99 at
HakShop](https://hakshop.com/products/packet-squirrel)

### Red Team: How to Succeed By Thinking Like the Enemy

[![Red Team Book](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0465048943&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20){:.right}](http://amzn.to/2B4thBA)

Not just about Information Security Red Teaming, [this
book](http://amzn.to/2B4thBA) by Micah Zenko describes the way in which
adversarial simulation helps organizations strengthen their posture.  By taking
a look at the role played by assumed attackers, it helps demonstrate how
understanding the enemy leads to be better defenses, and how playing the enemy
leads to finding previously unknown weaknesses in defenses.  [$20.32 at
Amazon](http://amzn.to/2B4thBA)

## For Hardware Hackers & Electronics Makers

### Dremel Cordless Rotary Tool

[![Dremel 8220](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B008DRY5AI&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20){:.left}](http://amzn.to/2z0fvhK)

The [Dremel 8220](http://amzn.to/2z0fvhK) is a 12V cordless rotary tool.  You
can use it to cut, grind, or drill all kinds of materials.  I've used mine to
cut openings in project boxes for several electronics projects, to open
ultrasonically welded electronics devices, and even the occasional home
improvement project.  While they have corded models as well, I find the cordless
model more convenient, especially when working on my patio.  (Being in Silicon
Valley, I don't exactly have room for a full workshop.) [$99.00 at
Amazon](http://amzn.to/2z0fvhK)

### TUMPA Multi-Protocol Adapter

[![TUMPA](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=B0156ML5LY&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20){:.right}](http://amzn.to/2zUvvFp)

The [TIAO USB Multi-Protocol Adapter](http://amzn.to/2zUvvFp), or TUMPA for
short, is a multi-protocol interface, allowing for JTAG, SPI, UART, RS-232, and
SWD.  All of this is useful for interfacing with all kinds of hardware, like
dumping flash, using JTAG to examine the running state of a CPU, or even just
basic UART interfacing.  Like so many of these multi-interface systems, it uses
an FTDI FT-2232H chip, but this one has neatly designed interface connections
and a great support wiki.  [$39.99 at Amazon](http://amzn.to/2yZoyQ7)

### Adafruit & Sparkfun Gift Certificates

Adafruit and Sparkfun are retailers of a variety of maker & hardware hacking
supplies.  Both have a wide variety of tools and parts and both support Open
Source Hardware and the maker movement.  Get an
[Adafruit](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3331) or
[Sparkfun](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/13726) Gift Certificate if you
don't know what your favorite maker might want.

## For InfoSec Students & N00bs

### Hacking: The Art of Exploitation

[![Hacking: TAoE](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=1593271441&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20){:.right}](http://amzn.to/2B3By8J)

[Hacking: The Art of Exploitation](http://amzn.to/2B3By8J) may not be the most
recent book, but it's still a good read for those new to the binary exploitation
areas of security.  It's an excellent introduction, and contains lots of
still-relevant material, even if it doesn't include bypasses for all the latest
mitigations.  [$39.55 at Amazon](http://amzn.to/2B3By8J)

## Geek & Hacker Apparel

Despite the Security Weekly suggestion to [Hack
Naked](https://securityweekly.com/category/hack-naked/), there are a couple of
providers of fine hacking apparel to be found because most hackerspaces and
offices do require clothing:

* [0Day Clothing](https://www.zerodayclothing.com/)
* [Hacker Stickers](https://www.hackerstickers.com/)

## Young Hackers & Makers
