---
layout: post
title: "Hacker Summer Camp 2018: Prep Guide"
category: Security
series: Hacker Summer Camp 2018
tags:
  - Security
  - DEF CON
excerpt:
  Hacker Summer Camp is the combination of DEF CON, Black Hat USA, and BSides
  Las Vegas that takes place in the hot Las Vegas sun every summer, along with
  all the associated parties and side events.  It's the largest gathering of
  information security professionals and enthusiasts, and has been growing for
  25 years.  In this post, I'll present my views on how to get the most out of
  your 2018 trip to the desert.
---
For those unfamiliar with the term, Hacker Summer Camp is the combination of DEF
CON, Black Hat USA, and BSides Las Vegas that takes place in the hot Las Vegas
sun every summer, along with all the associated parties and side events.  It's
the largest gathering of information security professionals and enthusiasts, and
has been growing for 25 years.  In this post, I'll present my views on how to
get the most out of your 2018 trip to the desert, along with tips & points from
some of my friends.

* TOC
{:toc}

## The Panel ##

Because not everyone enjoys everything the same way, I've asked a few of my
friends to chime in for this blog post as well.  Some are new to the field, and
others have been around a lot longer than myself.  These are **itsc0rg1**,
**illusorycake**, **dissect0r**, **fadec0d3**, and **Anonymous**.

## The Events ##

There are 3 main events: DEF CON, Black Hat, and BSides Las Vegas (BSides LV).
Along with this, there are dozens of parties (corporate sponsors, DEF CON local
groups, etc.) and a number of smaller events like QueerCon and the Diana
Initiative.

### DEF CON ###

**DEF CON** is the largest and original of the 3 conferences.  Founded in 1993,
it is one of the longest running Hacker/Computer Security conferences, drawing
an estimated 25,000 attendees for DEF CON 25 in 2017.  It's widely speculated
that this year's attendance will hit 30,000, so be ready to meet some new
friends.
Introverts and those whose dislike crowds will want to make sure to be prepared
to take breaks from the masses at DEF CON.

In case you missed the big announcement, DEF CON will be spread across two
hotels this year: Caesar's Palace and the Flamingo.  I'm excited about this
change, but it does mean more time out in the Las Vegas sun.  This seems to be
due to the continued growth of the DEF CON "Village" concept, which is very
exciting to me -- it gives more space for the niche interests within the hacker
subculture to come together and explore their specific topics in more depth.

DEF CON has earned the nickname "line con" among some attendees, as it seems
like there's a line for everything.  Want to attend a talk?  Line up an hour
before.  Want to get into a village when it opens?  Better be lined up.  Want to
get your badge early on Thursday?  Try lining up at 1AM.  That being said, you
don't *have* to do things this way.  The talks will end up on YouTube (or buy
them even sooner) or you can always hang out in someone's hotel room and watch
them over the hotel cable.  Villages are generally accessible if you don't go
first thing.

### Black Hat Briefings ###

### BSides Las Vegas ###

### Ask the Panel: DEF CON, BSides Las Vegas, Black Hat: pick one.  Why? ###

**Matir**: Hands down DEF CON.  It's one of the few opportunities I get where I
feel comfortable being myself and even talking to strangers.  There's a sense of
belonging with many of the other attendees, and it's amazing how passionate
everyone is about what they're working on.  Of the three, it's the one I feel
most embodies the hacker spirit and culture.

**fadec0d3**: Both DEF CON and BSides for the culture.

**illusorycake**: BSides Las Vegas because it seems easier to get into the
interactional aspects of it due to the smaller crowd. DEF CON is a hell of a fun
experience but it seems a bit more difficult to understand what all is there to
interact with. I stumbled upon really neat stuff both years I've been to DEF CON
though, so if you can swing both BSides and DEF CON, I'd recommend it. I've been
to Black Hat once and didn't really feel compelled to go again.

## What to Do ##

## What to Bring ##

### Electronics ###

### Cash ###

### Personal Supplies ###
