---
layout: post
title: "Hacker Culture Reading List"
category: Security
tags:
  - Security
  - Security 101
  - Books
  - Hacker Culture
---

A friend recently asked me if I could recommend some reading about hacking and
security culture.  I gave a couple of quick answers, but it inspired me to write
a blog post in case anyone else is looking for similar content.  Unless
otherwise noted, I've read all of these books/resources and can recommend them.

<!--more-->

## Nonfiction ##

[![Cult of the Dead Cow: How the Original Hacking Supergroup Might Just Save the World](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=154176238X&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.amzimg .right}](https://www.amazon.com/Cult-Dead-Cow-Original-Supergroup/dp/154176238X/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&qid=1592972632&sr=8-1&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=ec04871aa1df66690df6f9de2406f340&language=en_US)

**[Cult of the Dead Cow: How the Original Hacking Supergroup Might Just Save the
World](https://amzn.to/2B583YP)** is a well-researched deep dive into one of the
original and most significant hacking groups.  Members of the cDc have been
involved in many of the early fundamental techniques and tools in the world of
hacking.  Even now, decades later, they continue to influence the fields of
hacking and cybersecurity, through activities like member Beto O'Rourke's
influences in politics, major roles in the cybersecurity industry, and other
positions.  They've had members testify before Congress, involved in running
DARPA, and the development of privacy technology Tor.  There's also a great
[companion talk to go with the
book](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QvZuAwLIsEo).

[![Breaking and Entering: The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called "Alien"](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0544903218&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.left .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Breaking-Entering-Extraordinary-Hacker-Called/dp/0544903218/ref=as_li_ss_il?dchild=1&keywords=story+of+a+hacker+called&qid=1592974197&sr=8-1&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=6484b2241b2662dedbd730b78fb79448&language=en_US)

**[Breaking and Entering: The Extraordinary Story of a Hacker Called
"Alien"](https://amzn.to/3duZq72)** covers a story of a hacker who started her
foray into exploring the restricted during her time at MIT.  The hacking done
there was more akin to what we might call urban exploration today, but was
called hacking at the time.  The inquisitiveness of wanting to explore what was
"verboten" is what has lead to generations of great hacks we've seen since.
Alien takes her interest in the forbidden and brings it to the digital age
through her computer exploits and develops into one of the most talented
hacking careers.  Her skills aren't limited to the keyboard, however, and she
takes things into her own hands and starts her own business.

[![Ghost in the Wires: My Adventures as the World's Most Wanted Hacker](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=0316037729&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.right .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Ghost-Wires-Adventures-Worlds-Wanted/dp/0316037729/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=0316037729&pd_rd_r=60709235-b524-41f1-ba1c-5208233b1c9c&pd_rd_w=ZSDVS&pd_rd_wg=RwOOh&pf_rd_p=4e3f7fc3-00c8-46a6-a4db-8457e6319578&pf_rd_r=AMF3QHRGHHQNTBN18XJN&psc=1&refRID=AMF3QHRGHHQNTBN18XJN&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=6e856d350b955623b5cfe694874d2ac8&language=en_US)

Love him or hate him, Kevin Mitnick is both one of the best known hackers of all
time as well as a significant influence in the hacking and phone phreaking
scenes of the 1990s.  **[Ghost in the Wires: My Adventures as the World's Most
Wanted Hacker](https://amzn.to/3fT4Om2)** documents the times he was on the run
from federal authorities while labeled as the "world's most dangerous hacker."
While the book is not very technical at all, it describes some great social
engineering exploits and is an enjoyable read to get to understand the actions
involved in escaping the Feds.  Even though they're older books, I also enjoy
Mitnick's [The Art of Deception: Controlling the Human Element of
Security](https://amzn.to/3dvaXDB) and [The Art of Intrusion: The Real Stories
Behind the Exploits of Hackers, Intruders and
Deceivers](https://amzn.to/3hY6Vaj).

[![The Cuckoo's Egg: Tracking a Spy Through the Maze of Computer Espionage](//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?_encoding=UTF8&ASIN=1416507787&Format=_SL160_&ID=AsinImage&MarketPlace=US&ServiceVersion=20070822&WS=1&tag=systemovecom-20&language=en_US){:.left .amzimg}](https://www.amazon.com/Cuckoos-Egg-Tracking-Computer-Espionage/dp/1416507787/ref=as_li_ss_il?_encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=&linkCode=li2&tag=systemovecom-20&linkId=7b9b2c71172fc8659ba81a001a1b0d29&language=en_US)

**[The Cuckoo's Egg](https://amzn.to/2NmhW76)** goes back to an era of
timesharing on mainframe computer systems.  Astronomer turned systems
administrator turned author Cliff Stoll details how an accounting error turned
into a hunt for a hacker that has compromised their timesharing system at
Lawrence Berkeley Labs.  It's not just some bored student or phreaker messing
with their system -- it turns into a major intelligence and criminal
investigation, leading to a major bust.  Oh, and that accounting error?  It was
over 75 cents.  This may well be one of the earliest hacking investigations to
be documented and publicized in this way.  It's a hybrid of detective story and
hacking story, and is just the right length to tell the story.

## Fiction (Culturally Influencing) ##
